Improve some wording in the functors tutorial (#2023)
ocaml/ocaml.org: data/tutorials/language/1ms_01_functors.md

This allows the user to seemingly extend the module `String` with a submodule `Set`. Check the behaviour using `opam exec -- dune exec funkt < dune`.

> ## Parametrising Modules with Functors 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Parametrising Modules with Functors
```

> ## Functors Facilitate Parametrising Modules

Reviewer: What do you think of this?
```suggestion
## Parametrising Modules with Functors 
```

Author: Yeah, that's way better :smile:. Short and sweet.

end

module Binary(Elt: OrderedType) : S = struct

>   type elt (* = replace by your own *)
>   type t (* = replace by your own *)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  type elt (* Add your own type definition *)
  type t (* Add your own type definition *)
```

Check the program's behaviour using `opam exec -- dune exec funkt < dune`.

> **Note**: The functor `IterPrint.Make` exposes the type from the injected dependency (here first `List.t` then `Array.t`) as the type `t` required of the result module. That's why a `with type` constraint is needed. When customising a type that's not exposed by the result module (i.e. an _implementation detail_), the `with type` constraint is not needed. As a further consequence of this, we could even define a local type `t` within the `struct` block for use within the implementation, and such a type `t` would not shadow the type `t` of the result module.

Reviewer: Thanks, @neuroevolutus, that note needs to be clarified. Your text is better than is initial one, do you think this improves on it:

```suggestion
**Note**: Modules received and returned by `IterPrint.Make` both have a type `t`. The `with type ... :=` constraint is needed to make the two `t` identical. This allows functions from the injected dependency and result module to use the same type. When the parameter's contained type is not exposed by the result module (i.e. when it is an _implementation detail_), the `with type` constraint is unnecessary. 
```

Regarding your last sentence:

> As a further consequence, we could even define a local type `t` within the `struct` block for use within the implementation, and such a type `t` would not shadow the type `t` of the result module.

This is a bit hard to grasp because it requires 1/ figuring out what the code would look like if modified with a local `t` and 2/ figuring out the shadowing concern.

However, I believe you have a valid point. This is a matter that needs to be addressed. Could we address it somewhere else in the document or do we need an additional example? We may even need a complete section to address naming and shadowing concerns in relationship with functor definitions.

What is our opinion on this?

Author: Thanks so much for the rewording. I think it's a lot more succinct and even clearer now. I made sure to commit your suggestion.

> This is a bit hard to grasp because it requires 1/ figuring out what the code would look like if modified with a local t and 2/ figuring out the shadowing concern.

I agree; that is a good point :sweat_smile:. I think adding a new section with a concrete example to address these concerns would be really nice. I'll work on adding this section and make a new commit to get your feedback.

Author: As a small aside, I added a small section on empty variants to the data types tutorial to give context for the use of a singular `|` as a placeholder type definition.

> **Note**: Modules received and returned by `IterPrint.Make` both have a type `t`. The `with type ... :=` constraint is needed to make the two `t` identical. This allows functions from the injected dependency and result module to use the same type. When the parameter's contained type is not exposed by the result module (i.e. when it is an _implementation detail_), the `with type` constraint is unnecessary. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: Modules received and returned by `IterPrint.Make` both have a type `t`. The `with type ... :=` constraint is needed to make the two `t` modules identical. This allows functions from the injected dependency and result module to use the same type. When the parameter's contained type is not exposed by the result module (i.e., when it is an _implementation detail_), the `with type` constraint is unnecessary. 
```
It reads funny to me to have a plural (two) with just `t` -- is it accurate to have `t` modules instead? ...or `t` types?

Regardless, there needs to be a comma after i.e.

Author: Thanks for catching that. I made sure to add the comma in that part.

With regards to the `t`, I think it may be fine to keep it as is since the `t` refers to two types rather than modules per se. What are your thoughts, @cuihtlauac?

Check the program's behaviour using `opam exec -- dune exec funkt < dune`.

> **Note**: Modules received and returned by `IterPrint.Make` both have a type `t`. The `with type ... :=` constraint is needed to make the two `t` identical. This allows functions from the injected dependency and result module to use the same type. When the parameter's contained type is not exposed by the result module (i.e., when it is an _implementation detail_), the `with type` constraint is unnecessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Modules received and returned by `IterPrint.Make` both have a type `t`. The `with type ... := ...` constraint exposes that the two types `t` are the same. This makes functions from the injected dependency and result module use the exact same type. When the parameter's contained type is not exposed by the result module (i.e., when it is an _implementation detail_), the `with type` constraint is not necessary.
```

### Naming and Scoping

> In the previous section, we learned how to use the `with type` constraint in order to unify types contained within both the parameter and result module of a functor. Let's go over a few more details concerning naming and scoping to get a better grasp of the mechanics of this constraint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `with type` constraint unifies types within a functor's parameter and result modules. We've used that in the previous section. This section addresses the naming and scoping mechanics of this constraint.
``

> When reading the source of `iterPrint.ml`, it may have seemed curious as to why we could not have simply defined `Make` as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Naively, we might have defined `Iter.Make` as follows:
```

"Simple", "obvious", "evident", and others are forbidden words :-) 

Also, shorter is (almost) always better.

```ocaml
module Make(Dep: Iterable) : S = struct
  type 'a t = 'a Dep.t
  let f = Dep.iter (fun s -> Out_channel.output_string stdout (s ^ "\n"))
end
```

> In the absence of code that utilises the function `f` provided by the output of `Make`, the project would compile without error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the absence of code that utilises the function `f` provided by the output of `Make`, the project compiles without error.
```

> However, since `Make` is invoked to create module `IterPrint` in `funkt.ml`, the project will fail to compile with the following error message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, since `Make` is invoked to create module `IterPrint` in `funkt.ml`, the project fails to compile with the following error message:
```

```shell
5 | ..stdin
6 |   |> In_channel.input_lines
7 |   |> List.concat_map Str.(split (regexp "[ \t.,;:()]+"))
8 |   |> StringSet.of_list
9 |   |> StringSet.elements
Error: This expression has type string list
       but an expression was expected of type string IterPrint.t
```

> The key thing to realise is that, outside the functor, client code is not privy to the fact that `type 'a t` is being set equal to `Dep.t`. In `funkt.ml`, `IterPrint.t` simply appears as an abstract type exposed by the result of `Make`. This is precisely why the `with type` constraint is needed to propagate the knowledge that `IterPrint.t` is the same as the instantiation of `Dep.t` (`List.t` in this case).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outside the functor, it is not known that `type 'a t` is set to `Dep.t`. In `funkt.ml`, `IterPrint.t` appears as an abstract type exposed by the result of `Make`. This is why the `with type` constraint is needed. It propagates the knowledge that `IterPrint.t` is the same type as `Dep.t` (`List.t` in this case).
```

> Another property of the `with type` constraint is that the type it exposes won't be shadowed by definitions within the functor body. In fact, the `Make` functor could be redefined as follows without preventing the successful compilation of module `Funkt`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type constrained using `with type` isn't shadowed by definitions within the functor body. In the example, the `Make` functor can be redefined as follows:
```

```ocaml
module Make(Dep: Iterable) : S with type 'a t := 'a Dep.t = struct
  type 'a t = LocalType
  let g LocalType = "LocalType"
  let f = Dep.iter(fun s ->
    Out_channel.output_string stdout (g LocalType ^ "\n");
    Out_channel.output_string stdout (s ^ "\n"))
end
```

> In the example above, `t` from `with type` takes precedence over the local `t`, which only has a local scope. However, it is generally better to avoid availing of this behaviour since it may make your code more difficult to understand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, `t` from `with type` takes precedence over the local `t`, which only has a local scope. Don't shadow names too often because it makes the code harder to understand.
```

Check the program's behaviour using `opam exec -- dune exec funkt < dune`.

**Note**: Modules received and returned by `IterPrint.Make` both have a type `t`. The `with type ... := ...` constraint exposes that the two types `t` are the same. This makes functions from the injected dependency and result module use the exact same type. When the parameter's contained type is not exposed by the result module (i.e., when it is an _implementation detail_), the `with type` constraint is not necessary.

### Naming and Scoping

The `with type` constraint unifies types within a functor's parameter and result modules. We've used that in the previous section. This section addresses the naming and scoping mechanics of this constraint.

> ``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Naively, we might have defined `Iter.Make` as follows:

```ocaml
module Make(Dep: Iterable) : S = struct
  type 'a t = 'a Dep.t
  let f = Dep.iter (fun s -> Out_channel.output_string stdout (s ^ "\n"))
end
```

> In the absence of code that utilises the function `f` provided by the output of `Make`, the project compiles without error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the function `f` isn't used, the project compiles without error.
```

Check the program's behaviour using `opam exec -- dune exec funkt < dune`.

**Note**: Modules received and returned by `IterPrint.Make` both have a type `t`. The `with type ... :=` constraint is needed to make the two `t` identical. This allows functions from the injected dependency and result module to use the same type. When the parameter's contained type is not exposed by the result module (i.e. when it is an _implementation detail_), the `with type` constraint is unnecessary. 

### Naming and Scoping

> In the previous section, we learned how to use the `with type` constraint in order to unify a type `t` contained within both the parameter and result module of a functor. Let's go over a few more details concerning naming and scoping to get a better grasp of the mechanics of this constraint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous section, we learned how to use the `with type` constraint in order to unify types contained within both the parameter and result module of a functor. Let's go over a few more details concerning naming and scoping to get a better grasp of the mechanics of this constraint.
```

When reading the source of `iterPrint.ml`, it may have seemed curious as to why we could not have simply defined `Make` as follows:

```ocaml
module Make(Dep: Iterable) : S = struct
  type 'a t = 'a Dep.t
  let f = Dep.iter (fun s -> Out_channel.output_string stdout (s ^ "\n"))
end
```

> In the absence of client code that utilises the function `f` provided by the output of `Make`, the project would compile without error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the absence of code that utilises the function `f` provided by the output of `Make`, the project would compile without error.
```

> However, since `Make` is invoked to create module `IterPrint` in `funkt.ml`, the project will fail to compile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, since `Make` is invoked to create module `IterPrint` in `funkt.ml`, the project will fail to compile with the following error message:
```

```shell
5 | ..stdin
6 |   |> In_channel.input_lines
7 |   |> List.concat_map Str.(split (regexp "[ \t.,;:()]+"))
8 |   |> StringSet.of_list
9 |   |> StringSet.elements
Error: This expression has type string list
       but an expression was expected of type string IterPrint.t
```

This may seem odd given the fact that the modified `Make` functor successfully compiles on its own. Indeed, if we had used an inappropriate definition such as `type 'a t = MkT`, the functor itself would have failed to compile:

```shell
11 | .................................struct
12 |   type 'a t = MkT
13 |   let f = Dep.iter (fun s -> Out_channel.output_string stdout (s ^ "\n"))
14 | end
Error: Signature mismatch:
       Modules do not match:
         sig type 'a t = MkT val f : string Dep.t -> unit end
       is not included in
         S
       Values do not match:
         val f : string Dep.t -> unit
       is not included in
         val f : string t -> unit
       The type string Dep.t -> unit is not compatible with the type
         string t -> unit
       Type string Dep.t is not compatible with type string t

> ```

Reviewer: Do you think this example is needed? Let's focus on a single story, the unification constraint.

Author: For sure, frankly I agree with you :+1:. This was mostly me digressing as a result of the fiddling I was doing trying to understand the code locally on my computer :sweat_smile:. I'll add a new commit to undo this.

The key thing to realise is that, outside the functor, client code is not privy to the fact that `type 'a t` is being set equal to `Dep.t`. In `funkt.ml`, `IterPrint.t` simply appears as an abstract type exposed by the result of `Make`. This is precisely why the `with type` constraint is needed to propagate the knowledge that `IterPrint.t` is the same as the instantiation of `Dep.t` (`List.t` in this case).

Another property of the `with type` constraint is that the type it exposes won't be shadowed by definitions within the functor body. In fact, the `Make` functor could be redefined as follows without preventing the successful compilation of module `Funkt`:

```ocaml
module Make(Dep: Iterable) : S with type 'a t := 'a Dep.t = struct

>   type 'a t = MkT
>   let g _ = "MkT"
>   let f = Dep.iter(fun s ->
>     Out_channel.output_string stdout (g MkT ^ "\n");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  type 'a t = LocalType
  let g LocalType = "LocalType"
  let f = Dep.iter(fun s ->
    Out_channel.output_string stdout (g LocalType ^ "\n");
```

    Out_channel.output_string stdout (s ^ "\n"))
end
```

> In the example above, the local type `t` does not shadow the type `t` exposed by the `with type` constraint and can be used for the implementation of the functor. However, it is generally better to avoid availing of this behaviour since it may make your code more difficult to understand.

Reviewer: I understand your point. I must admit I had never fallen into that pitfall and wasn't aware of it. 

What do you think about turning the narrative into something like:

> `t` from `with type` takes over local `t` which only has a local scope?

Again, the idea is to make things more direct.

Author: I agree; that sounds good. It sounds clearer to me as a reader.

Author: I used "takes precedence over" in the rewording, but let me know if you feel it's clearer with just saying "takes over."
